.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt GCLI-COMMENT 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gcli comment
.Nd Submit comments on GitHub and GitLab issues and PRs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl y
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Op Fl i Ar issue | Fl p Ar PR
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
can be used to add comments in the discussion under issues and pull
requests on both GitHub and GitLab. Note that PRs are treated as
issues on GitHub, making the
.Fl i
and
.Fl p
flags exchangable without changing the overall effect of creating the
comment.
.Nm
will open an editor, either specified in your environment through
.Ev EDITOR
or the one set in your global config file
.Pa gcli.conf ,
to enter the comment. See
.Xr gcli 1
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl o , -owner Ar owner
Comment in the repository of the given owner. This option can only be
used in combination with
.Fl r .
.It Fl r , -repo Ar repo
Comment in the given repository. This option can only be used in
combination with
.Fl r .
.It Fl y , -yes
Do not ask for confirmation before submitting the comment. Assume yes.
.It Fl i , -issue Ar issue
Create the comment under issue
.Ar #issue .
.It Fl p , -pull Ar pr
Create the comment under PR
.Ar #pr .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Comment under PR #11 in the upstream repository:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli comment -p 11
.Ed

Comment under issue 1 in herrhotzenplotz/gcli:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli comment -o herrhotzenplotz -r gcli -i 1
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr git 1 ,
.Xr gcli 1 ,
.Xr gcli-issues 1 ,
.Xr gcli-pulls 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Nico Sonack aka. herrhotzenplotz Aq Mt nsonack@herrhotzenplotz.de
.Sh BUGS
There is no way to preview the markdown markup, however you can input
markdown which will be rendered on the remote site.

Please report issues preferably via e-mail, on GitLab or on GitHub.
