.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt GCLI-ISSUES 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gcli issues
.Nd Manage issues in various git forges
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl n Ar n
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Nm
.Fl i Ar issue
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Ar actions...
.Nm
.Cm create
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Op Fl y
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Use
.Nm
to list, create, edit or delete issues in repositories in various
.Xr git 1
forges such as GitHub, GitLab and Gitea. Without any action specified,
.Nm
will list issues in the given or autodetected repository.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl s , -sorted
Reverse the output such that most recent items appear at the bottom.
.It Fl o , -owner Ar owner
List issues in the repository of the given owner. This option can only
be used in combination with
.Fl r .
.It Fl r , -repo Ar repo
List issues in the given repository. This option can only be used in
combination with
.Fl o .
.It Fl a
List all issues, including closed ones. Cannot be combined with
actions. This does not affect the
.Fl n
option.
.It Fl n , -count Ar n
Fetch at least
.Ar n
issues. Setting
.Ar n
to -1 will fetch all issues. Default: 30. Note that on large
repositories fetching all issues can take a considerable amount of
time and may result in rate limiting by the respective API.
.It Fl i , -id Ar issue
execute the given
.Ar actions
for the specified
.Ar issue .
.El
.
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm create
Create a new issue in the given or autodetected repository. The
editor will come up and ask you to enter an issue message.
.Pp
The following flags can be specified:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl i , -in Ar owner/repo
Specify in which repository the issue is to be created.
.It Fl y , -yes
Do not ask for confirmation before creating the issue. Assume yes.
.El
.El
.Sh ACTIONS
.Ar actions...
may be one or more of the following:
.Bl -tag -width "labels [options]"
.It Cm comments
Print a list of comments under the issue.
.It Cm status
Print a short summary of the issue.
.It Cm op
Print the original post of the issue.
.It Cm close
Close the issue.
.It Cm reopen
Reopen a closed issue.
.It Cm assign Ar assignee
Assign the issue to the given
.Ar assignee
(user name).
.It Cm labels Op Ar options
The following options can be specified more than once:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It add Ar label
Add the given label to the issue.
.It remove Ar label
Remove the given label from the issue.
.El
.It Cm milestone Ar id
Assign the issue to a milestone with the given
.Ar id .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Print a list of issues in the current project:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli issues
.Ed
.Pp
Report a new issue in the current project:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli create issues "summary here"
.Ed
.Pp
Print both a summary and comments of issue 1 in herrhotzenplotz/gcli:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli issues -o herrhotzenplotz -r gcli -i 1 status comments
.Ed
.Pp
Add the labels
.Sq foo
and
.Sq bar
to the issue with id 420:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli issues -i420 labels add foo add bar
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr git 1 ,
.Xr gcli 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Nico Sonack aka. herrhotzenplotz Aq Mt nsonack@herrhotzenplotz.de
.Sh CAVEATS
GitHub and Gitea treat Pull Requests as Issues. Due to the semantics
of
.Nm
those issues that are actually PRs are dropped from the output. In
this case a note will be printed indicating how many issues were
dropped. You can suppress this warning using the
.Fl q
program option.
.Sh BUGS
GitHub only supports removing labels from issues one by one. If you
still wanna remove multiple issues with one gcli call, you may do
something like:
.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli issues -i42 \\
        labels remove bug \\
        labels remove foo
.Ed
.Pp
Please report issues preferably via e-mail, on GitLab or on GitHub.
