.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt GCLI-MILESTONES 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gcli milestones
.Nd List and manage milestones in various Git Forges
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Nm
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Op Fl i Ar id
.Nm
.Cm create
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Fl t Ar title
.Op Fl d Ar description
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command can be used to work with milestones on various
.Xr git 1
forges. You can list, create, modify or delete milestons.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl i , -id Ar id
Operate on a milestone with the given
.Ar id .
.It Fl o , -owner Ar owner
Work with milestones on a repository of the given
.Ar owner .
.It Fl r , -repo Ar repo
Work with milestones on the given
.Ar repository .
.It Fl t , -title Ar title
Create a milestone with the given
.Ar title .
This option is mandatory when creating a milestone.
.It Fl d , -description Ar description
Create the milestone with the given
.Ar description .
.El
.Sh ACTIONS
When operating on a single milestone you may use one or more of the
following actions:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm status
Print general metadata and information about the milestone.
.It Cm issues
Print a list of issues attached to the milestone.
.It Cm delete
Delete this milestone.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Print a list of milestones for the current autodetected forge:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli milestones
.Ed
.Pp
Print details about the milestone with the ID 42:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli milestones -i 42 status
.Ed
.Pp
Create a new milestone with the title foobar:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli milestones create -t foobar
.Ed
.Pp
Delete milestone number 420 in vim/vim on Github:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli -t github milestones -i 420 delete
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr git 1 ,
.Xr gcli 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Nico Sonack aka. herrhotzenplotz Aq Mt nsonack@herrhotzenplotz.de
.Sh BUGS
The delete subcommand deletes the milestone without asking for
confirmation.
.Pp
Please report issues preferably via e-mail, on GitLab or on GitHub.
