.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt GCLI-LABELS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gcli labels
.Nd Manage ticket labels in git forges
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Nm
.Cm create
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Fl d Ar description
.Fl n Ar name
.Fl c Ar colour
.Nm
.Cm delete
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Ar name\ or\ id
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Use
.Nm
to list, create, edit or delete labels for Pull Requests/Merge
Requests and issues in repositories in various git forges such as
GitHub, GitLab and Gitea. Without any action specified,
.Nm
will list all defined labels in the given or autodetected repository.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl o , -owner Ar owner
Work in the repository of the given owner. This option can only be
used in combination with
.Fl r .
.It Fl r , -repo Ar repo
Work in the given repository. This option can only be used in
combination with
.Fl o .
.El

.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm create
Create a new label in the given or autodetected repository.

The following flags must be specified:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl n , -name Ar name
Set the short name of the label to the given
.Ar name .
.It Fl d , -description Ar description
Set the description of the label to the given
.Ar text .
Note that on GitHub this field may only consist of up to 150
characters.
.It Fl c , -colour Ar code
Set the colour of the label to the given
.Ar code .
.Ar code
is expected to be a 6 digit hexadecimal RGB colour code.
.El
.It Cm delete
Delete the specified label in the given or autodetected repository.

There are no flags for this subcommand.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Print a list of all labels in the current project:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli labels
.Ed

Create a new label called
.Sq bug
with a description
.Sq Something is not working as expected
and give it a red colour:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli labels create \\
		--name bug \\
		--description "Something is not working as expected" \\
		--colour FF0000
.Ed

Delete the label
.Sq foobar
in herrhotzenplotz/gcli and use the configured account
.Sq gitlab :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli -a gitlab labels delete -o herrhotzenplotz -r gcli foobar
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr git 1 ,
.Xr gcli 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Nico Sonack aka. herrhotzenplotz Aq Mt nsonack@herrhotzenplotz.de
.Sh BUGS
The delete subcommand should ask for confirmation and have a flag to
override this behaviour.

Please report issues preferably via e-mail, on GitLab or on GitHub.
