.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt GCLI-PULLS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gcli pulls
.Nd Manage Pull Requests on Git Forges
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl n Ar n
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Nm
.Fl i Ar pr
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Ar actions...
.Nm
.Cm create
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Op Fl t Ar branch
.Op Fl f Ar owner:branch
.Op Fl y
.Ar "PR title..."
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Use
.Nm
to list, create, edit or delete Pull Requests (PRs) in repositories on
various
.Xr git 1
forges such as GitLab, Gitea or GitHub. Without any action specified,
.Nm
will list open PRs in the given or autodetected repository.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl s , -sorted
Reverse the output such that most recent items appear at the bottom.
.It Fl o , -owner Ar owner
List PRs in the repository of the given owner. This option can only
be used in combination with
.Fl r .
.It Fl r , -repo Ar repo
List PRs in the given repository. This option can only be used in
combination with
.Fl o .
.It Fl a
List all PRs, including closed and merged ones. Cannot be combined
with actions. This does not affect the
.Fl n
option.
.It Fl n , -count Ar n
Fetch at least
.Ar n
pull requests. Default: 30. If
.Ar n
is set to -1 this will fetch all pull requests. Note that on large
repositories fetching all pull requests can take a considerable amount
of time and may result in rate limiting by the respective API.
.It Fl i , -id Ar PR
execute the given
.Ar actions
on the specified
.Ar PR .
.El

.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width create
.It Cm create
Create a new PR in the given or autodetected repository. The editor
will come up and ask you to enter the PR message.

The following flags can be specified:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl o , -owner Ar owner
Specify the owner of the repository where the PR is to be created.
.It Fl r , -repo Ar repository
Specify the name of the repository where the PR is to be created.
.It Fl t , -to Ar branch
The target (base) branch of the PR. This is the branch the commits are
to be merged into. You may omit this flag if you have set pr.base in
your .gcli config file.
.It Fl f , -from Ar owner:branch
The source (head) branch of the PR. This is the branch that contains
the commits that are to be merged into the target repository. You may
omit this flag and gcli will try to infer this information.
.It Fl y , -yes
Do not ask for confirmation before creating the PR. Assume yes.
.It Ar "PR Title..."
The title of the Pull Request or Merge Request.
.El
.El
.Sh ACTIONS
.Ar actions...
may be one or more of the following:
.Bl -tag -width comments
.It Cm all
Get all the relevant information about a PR. The following actions are
implied:
.Cm status ,
.Cm op ,
.Cm commits and
.Cm ci .
.It Cm commits
Print the list of commits associated with the Pull Requests.
.It Cm comments
Print a list of comments under the PR.
.It Cm status
Print metadata of the commit such as the ID, head and base branch etc.
.It Cm op
Print the original post of the Pull Request.
.It Cm ci
Print a list of checks that ran on the PR (GitLab Pipelines and GitHub CI).
.It Cm diff
Print a diff of the changes attached to the PR. This can be piped into
.Xr patch 1
or
.Xr git-apply 1 .
.It Cm close
Close the PR.
.It Cm reopen
Reopen a closed PR.
.It Cm merge Op Ar options
Merge the PR. You may supply the following options:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl -squash , s
Squash the commits before merging.
.El
.It Cm reviews
Print reviews including comments under them.
.It Cm labels Op Ar options
The following options can be specified more than once:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It add Ar label
Add the given label to the pull request.
.It remove Ar label
Remove the given label from the pull request.
.El
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Print a list of open PRs in the current project:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli pulls
.Ed

Create a new PR in the current Project, the head is the currently
checked out branch of git. See
.Xr git-status 1
The base will be what pr.base in .gcli is set to.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli pulls create "summary here"
.Ed

Print both a summary and comments of PR 11 in herrhotzenplotz/gcli:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli pulls -o herrhotzenplotz -r gcli -i 11 all comments
.Ed

Merge PR 42 in the upstream repository:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ gcli pulls -i 42 merge
.Ed

Note that you could also pull the PR head and merge it manually into
the base branch. Assuming trunk is the base branch:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ git fetch upstream pull/42/head:42-review
$ git checkout 42-review
$ <make etc>
$ git checkout trunk
$ git merge --no-ff 42-review
.Ed

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr git 1 ,
.Xr git-merge 1 ,
.Xr git-branch 1 ,
.Xr gcli 1 ,
.Xr patch 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Nico Sonack aka. herrhotzenplotz Aq Mt nsonack@herrhotzenplotz.de
.Sh BUGS
Please report issues preferably via e-mail, on GitLab or on GitHub.
