.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt GHCLI-ISSUES 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ghcli issues
.Nd Manage GitHub issues
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl n Ar n
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Op Ar actions...
.Nm
.Cm create
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Op Fl y
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Use
.Nm
to list, create, edit or delete issues in repositories on GitHub.
Without any action specified,
.Nm
will list issues in the given or autodetected repository.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl s , -sorted
Reverse the output such that most recent items appear at the bottom.
.It Fl o , -owner Ar owner
List issues in the repository of the given owner. This option can only
be used in combination with
.Fl r .
.It Fl r , -repo Ar repo
List issues in the given repository. This option can only be used in
combination with
.Fl r .
.It Fl a
List all issues, including closed ones. Cannot be combined with
actions. This does not affect the
.Fl n
option.
.It Fl n , -count Ar n
Fetch at least
.Ar n
issues. Setting
.Ar n
to -1 will fetch all issues. Default: 30. Note that
on large repositories fetching all issues can take a considerable
amount of time and may result in rate limiting by the GitHub API.
.El

.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm create
Create a new issues in the given or autodetected repository. The
editor will come up and ask you to enter an issue message.

The following flags can be specified:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl i , -in Ar owner/repo
Specify in which repository the issue is to be created.
.It Fl y , -yes
Do not ask for confirmation before creating the issue. Assume yes.
.El
.El
.Sh ACTIONS
.Ar actions...
may be one or more of the following:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm comments
Print a list of comments under the issue.
.It Cm summary
Print a short summary of the issue.
.It Cm close
Close the issue.
.It Cm reopen
Reopen a closed issue.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Print a list of issues in the current project:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli issues
.Ed

Report a new issue in the current project:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli create issues "summary here"
.Ed

Print both a summary and comments of issue 1 in herrhotzenplotz/ghcli:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli issues -o herrhotzenplotz -r ghcli -i 1 summary comments
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr git 1 ,
.Xr ghcli 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Nico Sonack aka. herrhotzenplotz Aq Mt nsonack@outlook.com
.Sh BUGS
It is impossible to manage labels of issues with this subcommand.
Please report issues preferably via e-mail or on GitHub.
