.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt GHCLI-REPOS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ghcli repos
.Nd Manage repositories on GitLab and GitHub
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl n Ar n
.Op Fl o Ar owner
.Nm
.Op Fl y
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Ar actions...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
can be used to list or manage your own or an organization's
repositories on Github and GitLab.
With no actions given,
.Nm
will list repositories, either of the through
.Fl o
specified owner or, if omitted, your own. Otherwise the given actions
are executed on the specified or autodetected repository. See
.Sx ACTIONS .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl s , -sorted
Reverse the output such that most recent items appear at the bottom.
.It Fl o , -owner Ar owner
Operate on the repository of the given owner. This option can only be
used in combination with
.Fl r .
.It Fl r , -repo Ar repo
Operate on the given repository. This option can only be used in
combination with
.Fl o .
.It Fl y , -yes
Do not ask for confirmation. Assume yes.
.It Fl n , -count Ar n
Fetch at least
.Ar n
repositories. Setting
.Ar n
to -1 will fetch all repositories. Default: 30. Note that on owners
with many repositories fetching all of them can take a considerable
amount of time and may result in rate limiting by the GitHub/GitLab
API.
.El
.El
.Sh ACTIONS
.Ar actions...
may be one or more of the following:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm delete
Delete the repository. You will be asked for confirmation unless you set
.Fl y .

The following flags can be specified:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl r , -repo
See
.Sx OPTIONS
.It Fl o , -owner
See
.Sx OPTIONS
.It Fl y , -yes
Do not ask for confirmation before deleting the repository. See
.Sx OPTIONS .
.El
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
List your own repos:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli repos
.Ed

List neutaaaaan's repositories:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli repos -o neutaaaaan
.Ed

Delete vim/vim without confirmation:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli repos -o vim -r vim -y delete
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr git 1 ,
.Xr ghcli 1 ,
.Xr emacs 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Nico Sonack aka. herrhotzenplotz Aq Mt nsonack@herrhotzenplotz.de
.Sh BUGS
It is impossible to create repos with this subcommand. Please report
issues preferably via e-mail or on GitHub.
