.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt GHCLI-SNIPPETS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ghcli snippets
.Nd manage Gitlab snippets
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl n Ar n
.Nm
.Cm delete
.Ar snippet-id
.Nm
.Cm get
.Ar snippet-id
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Use
.Nm
to list, create, download or delete GitLab snippets.
Without a subcommand specified,
.Nm
will list all of your own snippets.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl s , -sorted
Reverse the output such that most recent items appear at the bottom.
.It Fl n , -count Ar n
Fetch at least
.Ar n
snippets. Setting
.Ar n
to -1 will fetch all snippets. Default: 30. Note that on users with
many snippets fetching all snippets can take a considerable amount of
time and may result in rate limiting by the GitLab API.
.El
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm delete
Delete a snippet.
.It Cm get
Fetch the raw contents of the snippet.
.Sh EXAMPLES
List all of your snippets:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli -t gitlab snippets
.Ed

Delete snippet with id 69420:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli -t gitlab snippets delete 69420
.Ed

Print snippet with id 69420 into your pager:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli -t gitlab snippets get 69420 | $PAGER
.Ed

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr git 1 ,
.Xr ghcli 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Nico Sonack aka. herrhotzenplotz Aq Mt nsonack@herrhotzenplotz.de
.Sh BUGS
Yes. It is software.

This subcommand only works on Gitlab. It is not implemented for
GitHub, as GitHub Gists work differently.

Creating snippets is currently unimplemented.

There is no
.Fl y
flag to ask the user whether he is sure about deleting a snippet.

Please report issues preferably via e-mail or on GitHub.
