.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt GHCLI-FORKS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ghcli forks
.Nd Manage GitHub repositories forks
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl n Ar n
.Op Fl y
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Ar actions...
.Nm
.Cm create
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Fl i Ar target-owner
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Use
.Nm
to manage forks of other repositories on GitHub.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl o , -owner Ar owner
Operate on the repository of the given owner. This option can only be
used in combination with
.Fl r .
.It Fl r , -repo Ar repo
Operate on the given repository. This option can only be used in
combination with
.Fl r o
.It Fl y , -yes
Do not ask for confirmation. Assume yes.
.It Fl s , -sorted
Reverse the output such that most recent items appear at the bottom.
.It Fl i , -into Ar target-owner
When forking a repository, this is the organization or user the
repository is forked into.
.It Fl n , -count Ar n
Fetch at least
.Ar n
forks. Setting
.Ar n
to -1 will fetch all forks. Default: 30. Note that on repositories
with many forks fetching all forks can take a considerable amount of
time and may result in rate limiting by the GitHub API.
.El
.El
.Sh ACTIONS
.Ar actions...
may be one or more of the following:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm delete
Delete the fork. You will be asked for confirmation unless you set
.Fl y .

The following flags can be specified:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl r , -repo
See
.Sx OPTIONS
.It Fl o , -owner
See
.Sx OPTIONS
.It Fl y , -yes
Do not ask for confirmation before deleting the fork. See
.Sx OPTIONS .
.El
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Clone vim/vim and fork it into your account:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ git clone git@github.com:vim/vim
$ cd vim
$ ghcli forks create --into <myaccount>
.Ed

This will ask you if you want to add a remote to your fork. In case
you accept the offer, the origin remote will be renamed to upstream
and a new origin will be pointed at your newly created fork. You may
also want to setup a .ghcli file at the same time:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ printf -- "pr.upstream=vim/vim\\npr.base=trunk\\n" >> .ghcli
.Ed

Delete your fork of the current repository without confirmation:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli forks -y delete
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr git 1 ,
.Xr ghcli 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Nico Sonack aka. herrhotzenplotz Aq Mt nsonack@outlook.com
.Sh BUGS
Please report issues preferably via e-mail or on GitHub.
