.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt GHCLI-PULLS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ghcli pulls
.Nd Manage GitHub Pull Requests and GitLab Merge Requests
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl n Ar n
.Op Fl o Ar owner Fl r Ar repo
.Op Ar actions...
.Nm
.Cm create
.Op Fl i Ar owner/repo
.Op Fl y
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Use
.Nm
to list, create, edit or delete Pull Requests (PRs) in repositories on
GitHub or GitLab. Without any action specified,
.Nm
will list open PRs in the given or autodetected repository.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl s , -sorted
Reverse the output such that most recent items appear at the bottom.
.It Fl o , -owner Ar owner
List PRs in the repository of the given owner. This option can only
be used in combination with
.Fl r .
.It Fl r , -repo Ar repo
List PRs in the given repository. This option can only be used in
combination with
.Fl o .
.It Fl a
List all PRs, including closed and merged ones. Cannot be combined
with actions. This does not affect the
.Fl n
option.
.It Fl n , -count Ar n
Fetch at least
.Ar n
pull requests. Default: 30. If
.Ar n
is set to -1 this will fetch all pull requests. Note that on large
repositories fetching all pull requests can take a considerable amount
of time and may result in rate limiting by the GitHub/GitLab API.
.El

.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm create
Create a new PR in the given or autodetected repository. The editor
will come up and ask you to enter the PR message.

The following flags can be specified:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl i , -in Ar owner/repo
Specify in which repository the PR is to be created.
.It Fl t , -to Ar branch
The target (base) branch of the PR. This is the branch the commits are
to be merged into. You may omit this flag if you have set pr.base in
your .ghcli config file.
.It Fl f , -from Ar owner:branch
The source (head) branch of the PR. This is the branch that contains
the commits that are to be merged into the target repository. You may
omit this flag and ghcli will try to infer this information.
.It Fl y , -yes
Do not ask for confirmation before creating the PR. Assume yes.
.El
.El
.Sh ACTIONS
.Ar actions...
may be one or more of the following:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Cm comments
Print a list of comments under the PR.
.It Cm summary
Print a short summary of the PR.
.It Cm diff
Print a diff of the changes attached to the PR. This can be piped into
.Xr patch 1
or
.Xr git-apply 1 .
.It Cm close
Close the PR.
.It Cm reopen
Reopen a closed PR.
.It Cm merge
Merge the PR.
.It Cm reviews
Print reviews including comments under them.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Print a list of open PRs in the current project:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli pulls
.Ed

Create a new PR in the current Project, the head is the currently
checked out branch of git. See
.Xr git-status 1
The base will be what pr.base in .ghcli is set to.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli pulls create "summary here"
.Ed

Print both a summary and comments of PR 11 in herrhotzenplotz/ghcli:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli pulls -o herrhotzenplotz -r ghcli -p 11 summary comments
.Ed

Merge PR 42 in the upstream repository:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ghcli pulls -p 42 merge
.Ed

Note that you could also pull the PR head and merge it manually into
the base branch. Assuming trunk is the base branch:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ git fetch upstream pull/42/head:42-review
$ git checkout 42-review
$ <make etc>
$ git checkout trunk
$ git merge --no-ff 42-review
.Ed

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr git 1 ,
.Xr git-merge 1 ,
.Xr git-branch 1 ,
.Xr ghcli 1 ,
.Xr patch 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Nico Sonack aka. herrhotzenplotz Aq Mt nsonack@herrhotzenplotz.de
.Sh BUGS
It is impossible to manage labels of PRs with this subcommand. Please
report issues preferably via e-mail or on GitHub.
